
# 80sMUD

## Node.js-based MUD 

80sMUD is a [MUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MUD) game being built and prototyped on the robust and feature rich [RanvierMUD](https://github.com/RanvierMUD/ranviermud) game engine.

## Special Features thanks to Ranvier

* Robust bundle system: Nearly every aspect of the game can be modified without changing the core and allows for easy
  packaging and sharing of commands/areas/items/npcs/channels/behaviors
* Unopinionated network layer: easily swap out telnet for any network layer you like. No need to gut the whole codebase
  just to support a different transport type, just drop in a file.
* Customizable data layer: You are not tied to saving in any particular database or file storage sytem
* Optional coordinate based room system allowing for the flexibilty of a standard MUD world with the easy mappability of
  a strict 3D world.
* Scripting for all entities in the game for any event along with behaviors to create shared, composable scripts
* Skill system with passive/active skills
* Effects e.g., buffs/debuffs
* Quest system allowing for starting/progress/completion from any event in the game
* Communication channels with custom audiences

## 80sMUD development pipeline

* Modifying the network layer, to something else beside the default which is telnet.
* Deciding on a database for storing and protecting game data and user information such as passwords, and emails they use for account recovery.
* Combat extension, the default is pretty good, but needs work.
* More will be added, as soon as these basic problems are resolved.

## When will 80sMUD release?
80sMUD will be released when I feel it is in a playable state, I'm not looking for perfection, but I do want a quality product I can be proud of, and you can enjoy playing.

TL;DR: when it's ready.

## Demo of RanvierMUD

Point your favorite client or telnet to `ranviermud.com` port 4000. This demo server is wiped and updated from the `master` branch every hour.
